In the late 1920s, Jehovah's servants in Germany produced a Bible-based presentation that attracted huge crowds.
It was called the Creation Drama.
Some 10,000 people came to see it at the Berlin Sports Palace.
But what exactly was the Creation Drama?
And what efforts were made so that its message of hope might reach as many as possible?
The Creation Drama was the successor to a previous work called the Photo Drama of Creation.
Early in the 1900s, the Bible students, as Jehovah's Witnesses were then known, wanted to reach as many as possible with the Bible's message.
To attract people and teach them Bible truths, they combined recorded lectures with visual aids in the form of slides and motion picture film.
In 1914, they began showing the Photo Drama of Creation in city after city, and it was seen by over 9 million people in just the first year after its release.
But by the 1920s, after years of use, some of the Photo Drama's glass slides were broken.
The film was deteriorating, and the equipment was wearing out.
The Bible students still wanted to reach large audiences.
So in many lands, they began broadcasting Bible-based programs on the radio.
But in Central Europe, governments restricted this means of advertising the Kingdom Hope.
The brothers in Germany realized that a motion picture presentation similar to the Photo Drama would be the best way for them to reach people.
Little did they know how timely their efforts would be.
In 1927, Brother Hans Decker updated the Photo Drama Script with information from a new book entitled Creation, even adopting the name Creation Drama.
Brother Wilhelm Schumann hand-painted many new slides using pictures from recent publications. New film was also added.
Eric Frost, a skilled musician, composed music to accompany the program.
When it was released, the Creation Drama was 8 hours long and designed to be presented over several evenings.
At that time, Germany was suffering severe economic depression, and people needed hope to deal with the difficult conditions.
And a new political party, the National Socialist or Nazi Party, was gaining strength under the leadership of Adolf Hitler.
What efforts were made so that the Creation Drama's message might reach as many as possible?
In 1928, the brothers in Germany began showing the Creation Drama.
In the five years after its release, they showed it hundreds of times to over a million people.
Hitler opposed the preaching work of the Bible students, but Jehovah's people kept on preaching courageously.
Martin Puttsinger reported, one evening in Weisenberg, Bavaria, people were coming in droves to see the drama,
but the police blocked their entry. And even though hundreds went to demonstrate in front of the town hall, the police continued blocking them.
The next evening, stormtroopers showed up, looking to destroy the equipment.
Jehovah's Witnesses in Germany continued showing the Creation Drama until April 1933, when the government started imposing bans on their work.
In fact, in the last six months that it was shown in Germany, the brothers hosted 160 performances with a total of nearly 300,000 attendees.
In 1931, the brothers at the Central European branch in Bern, Switzerland recognized the success of the Creation Drama and requested permission to develop similar programs for use in the rest of Europe.
Even after the preaching work was banned in Germany, the witnesses continued to show the Creation Drama in such places as Switzerland, France, the Netherlands, Austria, Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia.
As conditions changed across Europe, the Creation Drama was updated to include new developments.
For example, when a brave family smuggled information from Germany into Switzerland about the persecution of Jehovah's Witnesses, this news was added to the Creation Drama.
As the clergy aligned themselves with Hitler's Nazi Party, this fact was also included in the drama.
And when Jehovah's Witnesses were arrested for taking a neutral stand, this too was added.
The brothers in Switzerland reported the last known use of the Creation Drama.
In 1939, there were 20 performances with a total attendance of 19,000.
Months later, the Second World War began.
Back in 1914, just before the First World War, the photo-drama of Creation had acquainted millions with the Bible's message.
From 1928 to 1939, as the Second World War approached, the Creation Drama was shown just in time to make an indelible impression on the minds and hearts of those who saw it.
Many described it as unforgettable. It did more than just inform people of God's promises.
It motivated many to put faith in the Kingdom Hope, in spite of the dark shadows of war.
The Creation Drama also encouraged thousands of Jehovah's Witnesses in Europe.
When they were persecuted and imprisoned, they continued to teach others about the Bible's promises for the future.
They continued to teach others about the Bible's promises for the future.